1. Hammer:
2. Piercing Pattern:
3. Bullish Engulfing:
4. The Morning Star:
5. Three White Soldiers:
6. White Marubozu:
7. Three Inside Up:
8. Bullish Harami:
9. Tweezer Bottom:
10. Inverted Hammer:
11. Three Outside Up:
12. On-Neck Pattern:
13. Bullish Counterattack-
Bearish Candlestick Pattern:
1. Hanging man:
2. Dark cloud cover:
3. Bearish Engulfing:
4. The Evening Star:
5. Three Black Crows:
6. Black Marubozu:
7. Three Inside Down:
8. Bearish Harami:
9. Shooting Star:
10. Tweezer Top:
11. Three Outside Down:
12. Bearish Counterattack-
Continuation Candlestick Patterns:
1. Doji:
2. Spinning Top:
3. Falling Three Methods:
4. Rising Three Methods:
5. Upside Tasuki Gap:
6. Downside Tasuki Gap:
7. Mat-Hold-
8. Rising Window-
9. Falling Window-
10. High Wave-

Hammer is a single candlestick pattern that is formed at the end of a downtrend and signals a bullish reversal.

The real body of this candle is small and is located at the top with a lower shadow which should be more than twice the real body. This candlestick chart pattern has no or little upper shadow.

The psychology behind this candle formation is that the prices opened, and sellers pushed down the prices.

Suddenly the buyers came into the market and pushed the prices up and closed the trading session more than the opening price.

Piercing Pattern:
Piercing pattern is a multiple candlestick chart pattern formed after a downtrend indicating a bullish reversal.

Two candles form it, the first candle being a bearish candle which indicates the continuation of the downtrend.

The second candle is a bullish candle which opens the gap down but closes more than 50% of the real body of the previous candle, which shows that the bulls are back in the market and a bullish reversal is going to take place.


Bullish Engulfing:
Bullish Engulfing is a multiple candlestick chart pattern that is formed after a downtrend indicating a bullish reversal.

It is formed by two candles, the second candlestick engulfing the first candlestick. The first candle is a bearish candle that indicates the continuation of the downtrend.

The second candlestick is a long bullish candle that completely engulfs the first candle and shows that the bulls are back in the market.

The Morning Star:
The Morning Star is a multiple candlestick chart pattern which is formed after a downtrend indicating a bullish reversal.

It is made of 3 candlesticks, the first being a bearish candle, the second a Doji and the third being a bullish candle.

The first candle shows the continuation of the downtrend. The second candle being a doji indicates indecision in the market. The third bullish candle shows that the bulls are back in the market and reversal will take place.

The second candle should be completely out of the real bodies of the first and third candles.

Three White Soldiers:
The Three White Soldiers is a multiple candlestick pattern that is formed after a downtrend indicating a bullish reversal.

These candlestick charts are made of three long bullish bodies which do not have long shadows and are open within the real body of the previous candle in the pattern.

White Marubozu:
The White Marubozu is a single candlestick pattern that is formed after a downtrend indicating a bullish reversal.

This candlestick has a long bullish body with no upper or lower shadows which shows that the bulls are exerting buying pressure and the markets may turn bullish.

Three Inside Up:
The Three Inside Up is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after a downtrend indicating bullish reversal.

It consists of three candlesticks, the first being a long bearish candle, the second candlestick being a small bullish candle which should be in the range the first candlestick.

The third candlestick should be a long bullish candlestick confirming the bullish reversal.

Bullish Harami:
The Bullish Harami is multiple candlestick chart pattern which is formed after a downtrend indicating bullish reversal.

It consists of two candlestick charts, the first candlestick being a tall bearish candle and second being a small bullish candle which should be in the range of the first candlestick.

The first bearish candle shows the continuation of the bearish trend and the second candle shows that the bulls are back in the market.

Tweezer Bottom:
The Tweezer Bottom candlestick pattern is a bullish reversal candlestick pattern that is formed at the end of the downtrend.

It consists of two candlesticks, the first one being bearish and the second one being bullish candlestick.

Both the candlesticks make almost or the same low.When the Tweezer Bottom candlestick pattern is formed the prior trend is a downtrend.

Inverted Hammer:
An Inverted Hammer is formed at the end of the downtrend and gives a bullish reversal signal.

In this candlestick, the real body is located at the end and there is a long upper shadow. It is the inverse of the Hammer Candlestick pattern.

This pattern is formed when the opening and closing prices are near to each other and the upper shadow should be more than twice the real body.

Three Outside Up:
The Three Outside Up is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after a downtrend indicating bullish reversal.

It consists of three candlesticks, the first being a short bearish candle, the second candlestick being a large bullish candle which should cover the first candlestick.

The third candlestick should be a long bullish candlestick confirming the bullish reversal.

On-Neck Pattern:
The on neck pattern occurs after a downtrend when a long real bodied bearish candle is followed by a smaller real bodied bullish candle which gaps down on the open but then closes near the prior candle’s close.

The pattern is called a neckline because the two closing prices are the same or almost the same across the two candles, forming a horizontal neckline.

Hanging man:
Hanging Man is a single candlestick pattern which is formed at the end of an uptrend and signals bearish reversal.

The real body of this candle is small and is located at the top with a lower shadow which should be more than the twice of the real body. This candlestick pattern has no or little upper shadow.

The psychology behind this candle formation is that the prices opened and seller pushed down the prices.

Suddenly the buyers came into the market and pushed the prices up but were unsuccessful in doing so as the prices closed below the opening price.

Dark cloud cover:
Dark Cloud Cover is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after the uptrend indicating bearish reversal.

It is formed by two candles, the first candle being a bullish candle which indicates the continuation of the uptrend.

The second candle is a bearish candle which opens gap up but closes more than 50% of the real body of the previous candle which shows that the bears are back in the market and bearish reversal is going to take place.

Bearish Engulfing:
Bearish Engulfing is a multiple candlestick pattern that is formed after an uptrend indicating a bearish reversal.

It is formed by two candles, the second candlestick engulfing the first candlestick. The first candle being a bullish candle indicates the continuation of the uptrend.

The second candlestick chart is a long bearish candle that completely engulfs the first candle and shows that the bears are back in the market.

The Evening Star:
The Evening Star is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after the uptrend indicating bearish reversal.

It is made of 3 candlesticks, first being a bullish candle, second a doji and third being a bearish candle.

The first candle shows the continuation of the uptrend, the second candle being a doji indicates indecision in the market, and the third bearish candle shows that the bears are back in the market and reversal is going to take place.

The second candle should be completely out of the real bodies of first and third candle.

Three Black Crows:
The Three Black Crows is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after an uptrend indicating bearish reversal.

These candlesticks are made of three long bearish bodies which do not have long shadows and open within the real body of the previous candle in the pattern.

Black Marubozu:
The Black Marubozu is a single candlestick pattern which is formed after an uptrend indicating bearish reversal.

This candlestick chart has a long bearish body with no upper or lower shadows which shows that the bears are exerting selling pressure and the markets may turn bearish.

At the formation of this candle, the buyers should be caution and close their buying position.

Three Inside Down:
The Three Inside Down is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after an uptrend indicating bearish reversal.

It consists of three candlesticks, the first being a long bullish candle, the second candlestick being a small bearish which should be in the range the first candlestick.

The third candlestick chart should be a long bearish candlestick confirming the bearish reversal.

The relationship of the first and second candlestick should be of the bearish Harami candlestick pattern.

Bearish Harami:
The Bearish Harami is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after the uptrend indicating bearish reversal.

It consists of two candlesticks, the first candlestick being a tall bullish candle and second being a small bearish candle which should be in the range of the first candlestick chart.

The first bullish candle shows the continuation of the bullish trend and the second candle shows that the bears are back in the market.

Shooting Star:
Shooting Star is formed at the end of the uptrend and gives bearish reversal signal.

In this candlestick chart the real body is located at the end and there is long upper shadow. It is the inverse of the Hanging Man Candlestick pattern.

Tweezer Top:
The Tweezer Top pattern is a bearish reversal candlestick pattern that is formed at the end of an uptrend.

It consists of two candlesticks, the first one being bullish and the second one being bearish candlestick. Both the tweezer candlestick make almost or the same high.

When the Tweezer Top candlestick pattern is formed the prior trend is an uptrend. A bullish candlestick is formed which looks like the continuation of the ongoing uptrend.

On the next day, the high of the second day’s bearish candle’s high indicates a resistance level. Bulls seem to raise the price upward, but now they are not willing to buy at higher prices.

Three Outside Down:
The Three Outside Down is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after an uptrend indicating bearish reversal.

It consists of three candlesticks, the first being a short bullish candle, the second candlestick being a large bearish candle which should cover the first candlestick.

The third candlestick should be a long bearish candlestick confirming the bearish reversal.

Three Outside Down:
The Three Outside Down is multiple candlestick pattern which is formed after an uptrend indicating bearish reversal.

It consists of three candlesticks, the first being a short bullish candle, the second candlestick being a large bearish candle which should cover the first candlestick.

The third candlestick should be a long bearish candlestick confirming the bearish reversal.

Doji:
Doji pattern is a candlestick pattern of indecision which is formed when the opening and closing prices are almost equal.

It is formed when both the bulls and bears are fighting to control prices but nobody succeeds in gaining full control of the prices.

Spinning Top:
The spinning top candlestick pattern is same as the Doji indicating indecision in the market.

The only difference between spinning top and doji is in their formation, the real body of the spinning is larger as compared to Doji.

Falling Three Methods:
The “falling three methods” is a bearish, five candle continuation pattern which signals an interruption, but not a reversal, of the ongoing downtrend.

The candlestick pattern is made of two long candlestick charts in the direction of the trend i.e downtrend at the beginning and end, with three shorter counter-trend candlesticks in the middle.

Rising Three Methods:
The “rising three methods” is a bullish, five candle continuation pattern which signals an interruption, but not a reversal, of the ongoing uptrend.

The candlestick pattern is made of two long candlesticks in the direction of the trend i.e uptrend  in this case. at the beginning and end, with three shorter counter-trend candlesticks in the middle.

Upside Tasuki Gap:
It is a bullish continuation candlestick pattern which is formed in an ongoing uptrend.

This candlestick pattern consists of three candles, the first candlestick is a long-bodied bullish candlestick, and the second candlestick is also a bullish candlestick chart formed after a gap up.

The third candlestick is a bearish candle that closes in the gap formed between these first two bullish candles.

Downside Tasuki Gap:
It is a bearish continuation candlestick pattern which is formed in an ongoing downtrend.

This candlestick pattern consists of three candles, the first candlestick is a long-bodied bearish candlestick, and the second candlestick is also a bearish candlestick formed after a gap down.

The third candlestick is a bullish candle that closes in the gap formed between these first two bearish candles.

Mat-Hold-
A mat hold pattern is a candlestick formation indicating the continuation of a prior trend.

There can be either bearish or bullish mat hold patterns. A bullish pattern begins with a large bullish candle followed by a gap higher and three smaller candles which move lower.
